README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge">
    <img src="https://altv.mp/img/branding/logo_green_with_label.svg" alt="Logo" width="400" height="100">
  </a>

<h3 align="center">RAGEMP - alt:V Multiplayer bridge</h3>

  <p align="center">
    A bridge that enables a swift transition from the RAGE Multiplayer platform to alt:V Multiplayer.
    <br />
    <a href="https://docs.altv.mp/"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://majestic-rp.ru">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug-report---.md">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge/issues/new?labels=enhancement&template=feature-request---.md">Request Feature</a>
  </p>

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> This bridge only supports gamemodes written in JS, there is no bridge for C# at the moment.



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a></li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#recommended-settings">Recommended settings</a></li>
    <li><a href="#dlc-resources">DLC Resources</a></li>
    <li><a href="#incompatible-systems">Incompatible Systems</a></li>
    <li><a href="#self-building">Self-Building</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#commit-style">Commit Style</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

Over the past year, `alt:V Multiplayer` has been developing at a rapid pace, and there are no signs of it slowing down. In collaboration with `Majestic RP`, `alt:V Multiplayer` has developed a bridge that enables a swift transition from the `RAGE Multiplayer` platform to `alt:V Multiplayer`. This project provides a set of APIs that mimic the `RAGE Multiplayer` API.



<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

Next we will explain how to install the bridge in alt:V, as well as explain the nuances that exist

### Prerequisites

Before installation, ensure that you have `alt:V` client and server modules installed on your system. Visit [alt:V Official Site](https://altv.mp/) for more details:

1. Create empty folder and install alt:V server using `npx altv-pkg release` command inside new folder. (We recommend using the `release` version for release purposes. And `npx altv-pkg dev` for development purposes only (E.g to test new features or to test your server before release)). Please visit [alt:V pkg Docs](https://github.com/altmp/altv-pkg) for more details.

2. Create `resources` folder inside your project folder.

### Installation

   
1. **Download**: Download the latest version of the bridge from the [Releases](https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge/releases) page.

2. **Installation**:

    - Extract folder to resources directory of your `alt:V` server. (So it should look like `myproject/resources/bridge`)
    - Create `server.toml` file, and adjust settings to your needs. Visit [alt:V Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/configs/server.html) for more details.
    - For bridge to work, you need to add `bridge` resource to your server configuration file `server.toml` by including a line like:
      ```toml
      modules = [
          "js-module"
      ]

      resources = [    
          "dlc_resources/*", # aka client_packages/game_resources/dlcpacks folder
          "game_resources",  # aka client_packages/game_resources folder (common, raw, x64 and etc)

          "bridge", # Adding bridge resource

          "client_resources", # aka client_packages folder
          "server_resources" # aka packages/myserver folder
      ]
      ```

3. For `client_resources`, create file `resource.toml` inside `client_resources` folder with this content:
    ```toml
    type = "js"
    client-main = "index.js"
    client-files = [
        "*"
    ]

    # Adjust this to your needs
    required-permissions = [
        "Screen Capture",
        "WebRTC",
        "Clipboard Access",
        "Extended Voice API"
    ]

    [config]
    bridge-main = true
    ```

4. For `server_resources`, create file `resource.toml` inside `server_resources` folder with this content:
    ```toml
    type = "js"
    main = "index.js"
    ```

5. For `game_resources` and `dlc_resources`, please follow the instructions in the [DLC Resources](#dlc-resources) section.

6. **Start the Server**: Run your `alt:V` server as usual and ensure that the project module loads correctly.


<!-- SETTINGS-->
## Recommended settings
We recommend adding this settings in server.toml for best performance
```toml

host = "1.2.3.4" # Your public IP address
outgoingInterface = "5.6.7.8" # If you have multiple IP addresses, you can specify the outgoing interface here for the server to use. For example 5.6.7.8 will be used to speak with masterlist server.

mtu=1000 # Maximum safe value is 1200. Setting higher values may cause network issues.
highThreadPriority = true # Forces the server to prioritize CPU resources for itself.
hashClientResourceName = true # Hashes the resource names sent to the client.

disableOptionalProps = true # Disables GTA:O extra world objects. (May cause FPS drops for high load servers)

# Streamer settings, many high load servers in RAGEMP use ~200 distance for streaming. Majestic uses 300 in their server.
streamingDistance = 300.0
migrationDistance = 200.0
mapCellAreaSize = 100


sendPlayerNames = false # Disables sending player names to the client. (Most RAGEMP servers use their own name tags system)
spawnAfterConnect = true # RAGEMP spawns players after they connect, alt:V don't spawn unless you do it manually. This setting will spawn players after they connect.
connectionQueue = false # Disables connection queue. (RAGEMP doesn't have connection queue)

# In order to handle more players, you can increase the worker ports. (aka sockets.conf in RAGEMP). Recommended value is 300 players per worker.
worker-ports = [7770, 7771, 7772, 7773, 7774, 7775]

# Values adjusted for Intel Xeon E-2388G CPU, for 2000 players. Adjust these values to your server's needs.
[threads]
streamer = 1
migration = 1
syncSend = 10
syncReceive = 2

# Limiting streamed entities. (RAGEMP has a limit of 200 streamed peds in total. Play around with these values to find the best value for your server)
[maxStreaming]
entities = 560 # Maximum value in alt:V (Limit 560)
vehicles = 128 # Maximum streamed vehicles (Limit 128)
peds = 220 # Maximum streamed peds (Limit 220)
objects = 120 # Maximum streamed server-sided objects. Doesn't affect streamed client-sided objects. (Limit 120)

# Disables collision checks so client sided natives like setNoCollision will work.
[antiCheat]
collision = false
```

<!-- DLC Resources -->
## DLC Resources
`alt:V` uses a different system for handling DLC resources. In `RAGE Multiplayer`, DLC resources are stored in `client_packages/game_resources/dlcpacks` folder, while in `alt:V` they are stored as separate resource. To port DLC resources from `RAGE Multiplayer` to `alt:V`, you will need to follow instuctions. Visit [alt:V Resource Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/resources.html) for more details.

- `client_packages/game_resources/dlcpacks`: All your folders with `dlc.rpf` should be placed in `dlc_resources` folder in your `alt:V` server resources folder. (So it should look like `myproject/resources/dlc_resources`)

- Anything that is not a `dlc.rpf` file should be placed in `game_resources` folder in your `alt:V` server resources folder. For example `x64`, `common`, `raw` and etc (So it should look like `myproject/resources/game_resources`).
- Also make sure to add `resource.toml` file inside `game_resources` folder with this content:
  ```toml
  type = 'rpf'
  client-files = [ 
      'raw/*',
      'x64/*',
      'common/*'
  ]
  ```

<!-- INCOMPATIBLE SYSTEMS -->
## Incompatible Systems

There are some systems that is impossible to port from `RAGE Multiplayer` to `alt:V` due to the differences in the platforms. Some of these systems include:

- **Voice Chat**: `RAGE Multiplayer` uses different system for voice chat, while `alt:V` uses a channel voice chat system. To port voice chat, you will need to rewrite the voice chat system from scratch. Visit [alt:V Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/voice.html) for more details.
- **Weapon damage system**: `RAGE Multiplayer` uses client-sided damage events only, while `alt:V` uses both server-sided and client-sided event system. You will need to rewrite the weapon damage system, and adjust damage. (In `alt:V` it is very similar to `RAGE Multiplayer`. Visit [alt:V Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/js/api/alt-server.IServerEvent.html#_altmp_altv_types_alt_server_IServerEvent_weaponDamage) for more details.)
- **CEF Textures**: `RAGE Multiplayer` in March 2024 added `http://game-textures/put` endpoint to allow CEF textures to be loaded into game, which is currently not supported in `alt:V`.

To rewrite this project for another platform, you will need deep understanding of the target platform’s API and possibly a complete overhaul of the networking code.



<!-- SELF-BUILDING -->
## Self-Building

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge
   cd ragemp-altv-bridge
   npm install
    ```

2. **Build the Project**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

3. **Copy the Output**:
   - Copy the `bindings/dist` folder to your `alt:V` server bridge resource folder.


<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

To align with `alt:V`'s commitment to maintaining a clean commit history, please ensure that your commit messages follow our conventional commit format. This aids in automatic changelog generation and streamlines the versioning process. (See [Commit Style](#commit-style) for more details).

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request


## Commit style
At alt:V Multiplayer we follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) style.

Breaking change indication is preferred via ! after change type.

Recommended change types:
- `fix`
- `feat`
- `build`
- `ci`
- `chore`
- `refactor`
- `test`
- `perf`
- `revert`

<!-- LICENSE -->
## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.


<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments

* [alt:V Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/)
* [alt:V External voice chat](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/external_voice_server.html)
* [alt:V server.toml settings](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/configs/server.html)
* [alt:V CDN](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/cdn.html)


<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

chore: make it clearer where to place folders

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge">
    <img src="https://altv.mp/img/branding/logo_green_with_label.svg" alt="Logo" width="400" height="100">
  </a>

<h3 align="center">RAGEMP - alt:V Multiplayer bridge</h3>

  <p align="center">
    A bridge that enables a swift transition from the RAGE Multiplayer platform to alt:V Multiplayer.
    <br />
    <a href="https://docs.altv.mp/"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://majestic-rp.ru">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug-report---.md">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge/issues/new?labels=enhancement&template=feature-request---.md">Request Feature</a>
  </p>

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> This bridge only supports gamemodes written in JS, there is no bridge for C# at the moment.



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a></li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#recommended-settings">Recommended settings</a></li>
    <li><a href="#dlc-resources">DLC Resources</a></li>
    <li><a href="#incompatible-systems">Incompatible Systems</a></li>
    <li><a href="#self-building">Self-Building</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#commit-style">Commit Style</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

Over the past year, `alt:V Multiplayer` has been developing at a rapid pace, and there are no signs of it slowing down. In collaboration with `Majestic RP`, `alt:V Multiplayer` has developed a bridge that enables a swift transition from the `RAGE Multiplayer` platform to `alt:V Multiplayer`. This project provides a set of APIs that mimic the `RAGE Multiplayer` API.



<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

Next we will explain how to install the bridge in alt:V, as well as explain the nuances that exist

### Prerequisites

Before installation, ensure that you have `alt:V` client and server modules installed on your system. Visit [alt:V Official Site](https://altv.mp/) for more details:

1. Create empty folder and install alt:V server using `npx altv-pkg release` command inside new folder. (We recommend using the `release` version for release purposes. And `npx altv-pkg dev` for development purposes only (E.g to test new features or to test your server before release)). Please visit [alt:V pkg Docs](https://github.com/altmp/altv-pkg) for more details.

2. Create `resources` folder inside your project folder.

### Installation

   
1. **Download**: Download the latest version of the bridge from the [Releases](https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge/releases) page.

2. **Installation**:

    - Extract folder to resources directory of your `alt:V` server. (So it should look like `myproject/resources/bridge`)
    - Create `server.toml` file, and adjust settings to your needs. Visit [alt:V Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/configs/server.html) for more details.
    - For bridge to work, you need to add `bridge` resource to your server configuration file `server.toml` by including the following lines:
      ```toml
      # List of modules (specific language support) that should be loaded
      # (located in "modules" folder)
      modules = [
          "js-module" # will try to load "modules/js-module.dll" (or .so on Linux)
      ]

      # List of folders inside "resources" project folder
      # For example to load resource inside "resources/bridge" folder you need to specify "bridge"
      resources = [
          "dlc_resources/*", # aka client_packages/game_resources/dlcpacks folder
          "game_resources",  # aka client_packages/game_resources folder (common, raw, x64 and etc)

          "bridge", # Adding bridge resource

          "client_resources", # aka client_packages folder
          "server_resources" # aka packages/myserver folder
      ]
      ```

3. For `client_resources`, create file `resource.toml` inside `resources/client_resources` folder with this content:
    ```toml
    type = "js"
    client-main = "index.js"
    client-files = [
        "*"
    ]

    # Adjust this to your needs
    required-permissions = [
        "Screen Capture",
        "WebRTC",
        "Clipboard Access",
        "Extended Voice API"
    ]

    [config]
    bridge-main = true
    ```

4. For `server_resources`, create file `resource.toml` inside `resources/server_resources` folder with this content:
    ```toml
    type = "js"
    main = "index.js"
    ```

5. For `game_resources` and `dlc_resources`, please follow the instructions in the [DLC Resources](#dlc-resources) section.

6. **Start the Server**: Run your `alt:V` server as usual and ensure that the project module loads correctly.


<!-- SETTINGS-->
## Recommended settings
We recommend adding this settings in server.toml for best performance
```toml

host = "1.2.3.4" # Your public IP address
outgoingInterface = "5.6.7.8" # If you have multiple IP addresses, you can specify the outgoing interface here for the server to use. For example 5.6.7.8 will be used to speak with masterlist server.

mtu=1000 # Maximum safe value is 1200. Setting higher values may cause network issues.
highThreadPriority = true # Forces the server to prioritize CPU resources for itself.
hashClientResourceName = true # Hashes the resource names sent to the client.

disableOptionalProps = true # Disables GTA:O extra world objects. (May cause FPS drops for high load servers)

# Streamer settings, many high load servers in RAGEMP use ~200 distance for streaming. Majestic uses 300 in their server.
streamingDistance = 300.0
migrationDistance = 200.0
mapCellAreaSize = 100


sendPlayerNames = false # Disables sending player names to the client. (Most RAGEMP servers use their own name tags system)
spawnAfterConnect = true # RAGEMP spawns players after they connect, alt:V don't spawn unless you do it manually. This setting will spawn players after they connect.
connectionQueue = false # Disables connection queue. (RAGEMP doesn't have connection queue)

# In order to handle more players, you can increase the worker ports. (aka sockets.conf in RAGEMP). Recommended value is 300 players per worker.
worker-ports = [7770, 7771, 7772, 7773, 7774, 7775]

# Values adjusted for Intel Xeon E-2388G CPU, for 2000 players. Adjust these values to your server's needs.
[threads]
streamer = 1
migration = 1
syncSend = 10
syncReceive = 2

# Limiting streamed entities. (RAGEMP has a limit of 200 streamed peds in total. Play around with these values to find the best value for your server)
[maxStreaming]
entities = 560 # Maximum value in alt:V (Limit 560)
vehicles = 128 # Maximum streamed vehicles (Limit 128)
peds = 220 # Maximum streamed peds (Limit 220)
objects = 120 # Maximum streamed server-sided objects. Doesn't affect streamed client-sided objects. (Limit 120)

# Disables collision checks so client sided natives like setNoCollision will work.
[antiCheat]
collision = false
```

<!-- DLC Resources -->
## DLC Resources
`alt:V` uses a different system for handling DLC resources. In `RAGE Multiplayer`, DLC resources are stored in `client_packages/game_resources/dlcpacks` folder, while in `alt:V` they are stored as separate resource. To port DLC resources from `RAGE Multiplayer` to `alt:V`, you will need to follow instuctions. Visit [alt:V Resource Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/resources.html) for more details.

- `client_packages/game_resources/dlcpacks`: All your folders with `dlc.rpf` should be placed in `dlc_resources` folder in your `alt:V` server resources folder. (So it should look like `myproject/resources/dlc_resources`)

- Anything that is not a `dlc.rpf` file should be placed in `game_resources` folder in your `alt:V` server resources folder. For example `x64`, `common`, `raw` and etc (So it should look like `myproject/resources/game_resources`).
- Also make sure to add `resource.toml` file inside `game_resources` folder with this content:
  ```toml
  type = 'rpf'
  client-files = [ 
      'raw/*',
      'x64/*',
      'common/*'
  ]
  ```

<!-- INCOMPATIBLE SYSTEMS -->
## Incompatible Systems

There are some systems that is impossible to port from `RAGE Multiplayer` to `alt:V` due to the differences in the platforms. Some of these systems include:

- **Voice Chat**: `RAGE Multiplayer` uses different system for voice chat, while `alt:V` uses a channel voice chat system. To port voice chat, you will need to rewrite the voice chat system from scratch. Visit [alt:V Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/voice.html) for more details.
- **Weapon damage system**: `RAGE Multiplayer` uses client-sided damage events only, while `alt:V` uses both server-sided and client-sided event system. You will need to rewrite the weapon damage system, and adjust damage. (In `alt:V` it is very similar to `RAGE Multiplayer`. Visit [alt:V Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/js/api/alt-server.IServerEvent.html#_altmp_altv_types_alt_server_IServerEvent_weaponDamage) for more details.)
- **CEF Textures**: `RAGE Multiplayer` in March 2024 added `http://game-textures/put` endpoint to allow CEF textures to be loaded into game, which is currently not supported in `alt:V`.

To rewrite this project for another platform, you will need deep understanding of the target platform’s API and possibly a complete overhaul of the networking code.



<!-- SELF-BUILDING -->
## Self-Building

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/altmp/ragemp-altv-bridge
   cd ragemp-altv-bridge
   npm install
    ```

2. **Build the Project**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

3. **Copy the Output**:
   - Copy the `bindings/dist` folder to your `alt:V` server bridge resource folder.


<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

To align with `alt:V`'s commitment to maintaining a clean commit history, please ensure that your commit messages follow our conventional commit format. This aids in automatic changelog generation and streamlines the versioning process. (See [Commit Style](#commit-style) for more details).

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request


## Commit style
At alt:V Multiplayer we follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) style.

Breaking change indication is preferred via ! after change type.

Recommended change types:
- `fix`
- `feat`
- `build`
- `ci`
- `chore`
- `refactor`
- `test`
- `perf`
- `revert`

<!-- LICENSE -->
## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.


<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments

* [alt:V Documentation](https://docs.altv.mp/)
* [alt:V External voice chat](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/external_voice_server.html)
* [alt:V server.toml settings](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/configs/server.html)
* [alt:V CDN](https://docs.altv.mp/articles/cdn.html)


<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>
